Faculty was founded in 1997 as a two-year Informatics Study Program and was re-registered as a Faculty in 2003. FIT organizes Bachelor (first cycle) and Master (second cycle) studies in the field of information technologies. Faculty of Information Technologies (FIT) is a member of the public University "Džemal Bijedić" in Mostar. The curriculum is implemented in accordance with the principles of the Bologna Declaration. The first cycle is organized and implemented in two ways:

Classic, so-called in-class system
Distance Learning system, so-called DistanceLearning - DL
FIT is the first institution to introduce the concept of distance learning in Bosnia and Herzegovina and plays a leading role in the process of implementing and developing distance learning in our country. The Faculty has four cabinets with over a hundred computer stations and four laboratories. In addition to regular teaching activities, students and teaching staff have the opportunity to conduct various research in the mentioned cabinets and laboratories.

The quality and practical relevance of the study program are confirmed by the fact that, according to the Statistics Institute, 95% of our students are employed. The IT sector is a dynamically developing field, and there is a constant demand for this workforce in Bosnia and Herzegovina and worldwide. FIT conducts periodic research to analyze the alignment of qualifications and skills provided by the curriculum with the needs and demands of the market and environment. FIT has very good cooperation with state, federal, and cantonal ministries operating in the education and IT sector, as well as with regional IT companies.

The Faculty also has very successful international cooperation, primarily with universities in Austria (FH Joanneum, Graz), Germany (University of Paderborn), and Spain (University of Lleida), as well as with universities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the region. This cooperation involves the implementation of numerous activities such as the exchange of teachers and students, the implementation of joint scientific research projects, participation in seminars and conferences, the implementation of professional development programs, and other activities aimed at intensifying academic cooperation. FIT has participated in a large number of international projects, as well as projects funded by state funds.

The Faculty continuously works on improving the quality of all activities: teaching, curriculum content, grading system, textbooks and literature, classroom and other space equipment, DL platform, scientific research activities, publishing activities, selection of teaching staff and administrative personnel, library activities, lifelong learning, and other standards.